Mike Rome: Decks like full screen. So you guys can see cool.
Mike Rome: okay, awesome. I guess, even before I get in, maybe we can go around, and you guys can give me like this 30 second pitch, and I'll forget a lot of them. But it'll be helpful for QA. And I'll try to like tailor the talk a little bit. Based on on what I hear. So yeah, why don't we go around 30 seconds or 40 whatever, and then I can give you guys a spiel on me, and I'll give you some principles, some high level things I think you should be mindful of throughout this journey, and then we'll just get into tactical. QA.
Mike Rome: All right. Who wants to go first? st
Lilliana Robinson: Sorry.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: At the top of my screen.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, there, you go.
Dave Scott: Who's first? st Chloe.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Hello! Can you hear me?
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Conoscope?
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Okay. Looks like, no, George, do you want to take it.
George Reed - Noetic: Yeah, I can. I'm I'm good. Hey, Mike, thanks for this. This is great. We don't even need 30 seconds. But I'm founder of Noetic digital and we're building. You can think of it as an AI agent. That's that bridges your company and market and enables an ongoing conversation with your customers. So it's a form of market research survey. Essentially.
Mike Rome: Cool. Nice to meet you guys.
George Reed - Noetic: Nice to meet you.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Awesome. Collab.
Florence Ettlin: Hi, this is Talitha. I'm Flo, and we build Collab. We have an AI pocket concierge called Anna, and she helps short term rentals with replying to repetitive guest inquiries, and be available to guest
Florence Ettlin: 24, 7.
Florence Ettlin: And so that's what we do.
Mike Rome: Nice.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Awesome Nick for tutor. Me.
Nicholas Li: Hey? Yeah, I'm I'm Nick and Kevin and I are building a virtual classroom for Ib students. So we're trying to be like a virtual tutor that accompanies the students, like 2 years journey through their high school.
Mike Rome: Very cool. Nice to meet you guys.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Marat.
Nirat Attri: Hey? I'm Neera, and I'm the founder of health blocks. At health blocks. We are helping healthcare businesses build solutions to cater to hospitals and doctors.
Nirat Attri: With more ease we do this by helping them, embed their solutions into their existing ecosystems and make the operational workflows more effective.
Mike Rome: Cool. Nice to meet you, Rob.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Monica.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Hi, Monica Roy! I'm the founder of seascape clinical, and we have a sas that automates clinical trial management, execution tasks for sponsor pharma companies.
Mike Rome: Cool.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: All right, Annie.
Annie Brown: Well, I'm Annie. I'm the CEO at reliable, and we're AI infrastructure at the very beginning of the I guess. Machine learning AI training pipeline. So we help companies annotate complex contextual data by bringing users into the Ml pipeline.
Mike Rome: Cool.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Caesar.
Sezer: Hello, Cesar CTO! Of snapshot reviews. We are building a tool for engineering executives to follow the performance of their teams and individual engineers and
Sezer: providing feedback.
Mike Rome: Great nice to meet you.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Agent lunar.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Hi! I'm Dominique CEO of Agent Luna.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Hi! I'm William, and we're building AI agents to close the outdated financial practices between the needs of the next Gen. Investor.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Awesome.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Morgan.
Morgan Stanton: Hi, I'm Morgan, CEO of opal therapeutics. We're a uterus and a dish biotech startup. So our goal is research and development that's female focused for developing new therapeutics, for chronic, gynecological conditions.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Awesome.
Mike Rome: Nice.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Dave. Okay, Fabio has a a intro in the chat. Dave, do you want to go ahead.
Dave Scott: Yeah, hey, what's going on? This is Dave. We're evil genius games. We make a platform which allows people to play tabletop Rpgs anywhere around the world.
Mike Rome: Okay.
Mike Rome: cool, love the name.
Mike Rome: And then I got Fabio's in the chat right here
Mike Rome: 2 by night.
Fabio Caironi: Yeah, I can. I can try. But I'm sorry my Wi-fi is not working this morning. So Bytene helps startups deploy your compute intensive workloads
Fabio Caironi: and high speed and with minimal infrastructure configuration. We're like a a serverless, distributed computing platform. We have patented technology in the background. And we serve everything with a very simple and intuitive Apis and software development toolkits.
Mike Rome: Cool. Nice to meet you, Fabio.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Alright cogniscope. We wanna give it another try.
Çoruh | CogniScope: Yeah. Can you hear me now?
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Yes.
Mike Rome: Got you.
Çoruh | CogniScope: Cool.
Çoruh | CogniScope: So for gaming companies with unmanageable amounts of customer feedback, we provide a psychology based engine which helps studios take control of their players, engagement, retention, and revenue per user by deeply understanding their underlying motives and behaviors.
Mike Rome: Gotcha cool sounds like a pretty diverse group.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Yeah, that's the crew.
Mike Rome: Alright awesome. I I'll start rolling here like
Mike Rome: Like we said, you guys can just fire off questions. And I can hang like another hour and 10 min, so I'll try to get through it like a I don't know half hour or so, and then yeah, we can just like do some more tactical deep dive. So just speak up whenever I can't see the chat, so just yell at me
Mike Rome: cool. So I'm Mike and I have 2 companies. The 1st one's moonwater. And so I do like startup advisory and and fractional cmo work.
Mike Rome: I used to do a lot more of that. These days. I spend the vast majority of my time on my other business. It's light bulb lightbulb dot run and we do. You know, very technical growth and paid acquisition for typically kind of startups and e-commerce companies that are in this messy middle, so call it, you know, between 5 million 75 million in rep
Mike Rome: and so, you know, we're focused on improving their conversion, tracking their data, their Meta and Google ads, their creative stuff like that. So because I was a fractional Cmo, and because I spent like 12 plus years working my way up largely venture backed companies before that. Mostly post Series A to post series. C.
Mike Rome: I'm pretty well versed in other channels beyond paid acquisition as well. It just so happens that I spend more of my time on on that today. So we, we do do more consumer work than B, 2 BI know a lot of you guys are b 2 b, that being said, we have a handful of Sas clients. When the go to market motion looks a little bit more like consumer, we can get into that and I would also say that you know, probably 80% of this advice is still out
Mike Rome: applicable beyond beyond consumer. But you guys should just know that that's sort of my background. That's where I come from. On the advisory side. Yeah. Usually only advising a small subset of startups at a time. Again used to do more of this work before light bulb. But
Mike Rome: you know, over the last couple of years I've advised a handful of startups that have raised a combined 250 million plus. I love this stuff. I'm still very much learning, like you all. But yeah, I like to teach about it. I like to hopefully help you guys, I've had a handful of people who've been like really great springboards for my career, and
Mike Rome: every time I teach it I kind of learn something new as well. So sometimes I teach here. I do some stuff over at Northwestern Kellogg and stuff like that. So I think the most important thing, though, is like, forget all those Prereqs. I've just like screwed a lot of things up. I mean, it had like 15 years of
Mike Rome: trial and error, and some some decent wins scaling companies, and a lot of heartache as well.
Mike Rome: My partner, Robbie, at light bulb he actually started scaled and sold a venture backed tech Stars company as well. So yeah, that's kind of the the gist on us. Any questions before I start rolling on what I would call these like high level principles. For you guys to be mindful of. As you know, you're figuring out product market fit. And then you're thinking about how to scale. And and beyond that
Mike Rome: sweet. Okay, so yeah, just labeled these as sort of principles. And and so like, I said, we'll get into the more tactical stuff that matters. But I think you need guideposts. One of the hardest things about startups is, it's so easy to be busy. But I think the most important thing that you guys should kind of remember is busy doesn't mean anything at all. You really want to think through like, how do you figure out the power law for your startup at this time? Right? The small subset of things that are going to yield the most outputs.
Mike Rome: And, by the way, that changes based on the stage of the business, are you trying to validate product market fit? You're trying to figure out if you're retaining. Are you ready to scale? But I think that's that's really important. So anyway, I like to come back to principles like this just to to really stay disciplined and and keep stuff tight. The 1st one is this idea that, that growth is optional. So
Mike Rome: you know this site I stole from a former head of growth at at Facebook, when they kind of coined the term head of growth. And we're building growth teams. And we're sort of like at the forefront of of that movement.
Mike Rome: the whole idea is that like growing something new is is really difficult. It's like this incredible undertaking. I'm sure everyone on this call has already felt that and it requires lots of discipline. But I think if you can make peace with the challenge and not just you like, culturally.
Mike Rome: communicate this to your team as well like this is going to be hard. There's going to be lots of setbacks. We're gonna constantly get punched in the face, you know, even for the companies that end up succeeding, I think the more so you can set the expectation.
Mike Rome: that it's going to be like a grueling road. You know, the more healthy the culture is. But I think if you do that, and I think if you kind of stick to the guideposts that I recommend here, I really do believe that growth is optional. You know it's a little bit of an unconventional view. I I but I think it's a choice. And you know, when I think about the startups that I've been part of that have failed, or you know, I'm
Mike Rome: constantly a student of this stuff, and I look at the top. Reason startups are failing, I I think it's because you kind of lose your way around some of these guideposts. And so that doesn't mean you're not gonna have to pivot. You're not gonna have to like massively evolve but I think if you kind of run the right motion and you just you know you survive long enough. Eventually you'll figure it out so.
Mike Rome: I love. This idea of growth is optional. It's a choice, and I think at the highest level. It means that you know you need to have a set of principles to stick to when when the going gets tough.
Mike Rome: So the second principle here is I think, especially applicable for for early days. Like you guys, I've got a handful of Paul Graham quotes in here. I promise, like the full deck isn't just me regurgitating.
Mike Rome: regurgitating. Pg, quotes. I think everyone probably knows founder of Yc. But
Mike Rome: he has some really important advice, and and this is one of my favorites. By the way, I also think you guys should find like a handful of people to kind of subscribe to and listen to doesn't have to be me right like. Take this with a grain of salt. But don't. Don't listen to too many people. Again going back to the whole. It's so easy to be busy in a startup. I think one of the best things you can do is just really tighten your signal. So Paul Graham, for example. He's, you know. It just happens to be one of like
Mike Rome: 5 to 10 people where I really respect their their worldview, the results. And I think really hard about what they say. We read what they do. And I think it's much better to find 5 to 10 people that you think are really thoughtful, and you believe in their worldview. You know, Warren Buffett, Charlie Munger doesn't have to be startup people, only prominent investors, whatever and just really like study
Mike Rome: what they're saying, instead of just like having this fire hose of Twitter information, you know, from whoever's kind of screaming the loudest at any given time. So anyway, I love this Pg. Quote startups. Don't take off founders. Make them take off
Mike Rome: again. We'll we'll we'll talk like tactical stuff, paid acquisition SEO, whatever you guys want, like product led growth. But I think there's like there's a level up from all of that stuff. And this kind of goes back to like.
Mike Rome: I think so. I come from a map and a business background. And and earlier in my startup career, you know, call it 2010, 2011. Used to kind of think, like math and data could solve all your problems. And
Mike Rome: what I learned over, you know, 15. So year or so years is that there's there's sort of the hard skills of growth. And there's a soft skills. And when we start to, you know, get tactical. We'll talk more about the hard skills. I've got a couple of slides in here on growth models and frameworks, and and you're really starting to get into that. But I think the biggest thing I've learned is like the soft skills of growth are are just as important like, you know, just as
Mike Rome: just as key to running like a very thoughtful test on some sort of acquisition channel to validate. If it's a way for your business to scale at healthy unit economics is this idea or these ideas like building a culture? You know, that's just tough and
Mike Rome: expects hard things and isn't afraid to get, you know, like, really, a group of people who pick each other up when everyone's down. And collectively, you just constantly find ways not to get demoralized. That stuff is equally as important, and I wish I learned that a little bit sooner, and so it kind of brings me to principles like this. The second one here startups don't take off founders. And and then I kind of added this and early teams they make them take off.
Mike Rome: So you know, I talked to a lot of early stage companies, and they're trying to figure out like, you know, can they hire a growth person can they hire a marketer? And in general, I I think you guys should do a lot of this stuff yourself. Even if you don't know how to do it.
Mike Rome: to really learn it, and to really build conviction in who you need to hire. I'm a really big fan of like kind of bleeding before you hire, and really making sure that you need someone. And and you know, really making sure you hire slowly. And you know, assuming people execute like heck. You keep a place for them, and there's always a place for them. So I love this cultural idea. I put a bunch of examples in here of, you know, just
Mike Rome: some companies that have scaled really nicely and and things they did in the early days to really make their their businesses take off you guys have might have read the Paul Graham essay, do things that don't scale. It's it's a similar sort of
Mike Rome: A a similar sort of way to drive home the same point. But you know, per the slide.
Mike Rome: everyone's gonna have this chart on the right startups are messy again, if you can communicate this expectation that you're not just gonna have this beautiful hockey stick up into the right graph around revenue or customers, or active users, or whatever. I think that's really healthy stuff you can do for the culture. All of the companies that I've listed on the left. I think people would largely say these are all pretty successful companies or at least were and
Mike Rome: You know, they all went through a process like the one on the right, examples of companies doing things that don't scale, that I love. Instacart founder basically used to deliver orders via Uber to kind of Mvp. Out the idea. One of my favorites is Ben Silverman. At Pinterest. He used to go into apple stores in the early days of pinterest, and I'm sure everyone here has been an apple store. You go in, you click safari, and
Mike Rome: browser pops up. He would he would change the settings of the browser. So like the homepage, for you know, 5 macbooks in a row was pinterest.
Mike Rome: and people would just go in like, you know, wanting to buy a macbook, and then all of a sudden, they would hit safari and they'd be on pinterest. And he would literally just start doing user testing in the store.
Mike Rome: Brian Chesky and and Joe Gabia at Airbnb. You know, this was early days when a lot of the successful companies in Silicon Valley were developer, founded, not designer founded. These guys were very much designers. They went and took photos in New York City of apartments manually.
Mike Rome: Obviously like stuff that would never scale right? And if they kind of were focused just on scaling instead of just like sheer grit and willing things into existence. They wouldn't have figured out like these incredible insights, like
Mike Rome: incredible professional photography, is really important. If we're going to sell this idea of having people stay in other people's homes. It sounds so obvious now. But back in 2,008 if someone told you, hey, go stay with some stranger in New York City on your trip, you would say, no, I don't want to get murdered. But we've come a long way right and and and the only reason that they they did that is because, you know.
Mike Rome: they took it upon themselves to just make this thing work. They will things into existence. I don't have to read all these. I'll share the stack with with the group. Think you guys have it. But I've I've made a few tweaks every time. There's some links throughout. Again, going back to like the small circle of people. This is kind of a curated list of people that I've really learned from, and
Mike Rome: I've taken their advice to heart. I've executed on a lot of it, and it's been very helpful bill Gurley is another great one. This invest with the best Podcast that he's on here. This is really good stuff to listen to. And he really gets into this idea of, like.
Mike Rome: you know, building a culture of of willing things into existence and just a culture that doesn't get demoralized easily. So I would definitely check that out.
Mike Rome: Excuse me.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Sorry just to double tap on that, and backing up a little bit on the early stage hiring. We had Jake Gutstein from zest, and Dan Zavarotney is coming in next week, but they speak so much about the importance of having early hires be people who are significantly better than you, so I just love that. You're reinforcing that and wanted to share that. The alumni who heard your talk back in the day are still using those principles.
Mike Rome: Yeah, for sure. And like, I said, I've worked on some startups that have scaled well, some that have sold, others that have just, you know, burned, burned out. And yeah, the startups that aren't afraid to hire like like you want to hire
Mike Rome: the best people in the room, and you want to feel like
Mike Rome: like the startups where I grew the most and learned the most and contributed the most, were always the ones where I had a little bit of a chip on my shoulder, because I would go into the room and be like, Oh.
Mike Rome: I'm the dumbest person in this room, and you know that's kind of a tough pill to swallow in the early days. But it's, you know a team is everything right like going back to sort of like, how do we just like build frameworks to kind of like you know, be mental models to constantly come back to when you're in it. And it's so busy. And you could be doing a thousand things. I mean.
Mike Rome: you know, a team, 18, a team? So yeah, it's good. You guys are like again, that goes back to like the hard skills times, the soft skills. You know, the team stuff is just it's so key, and beyond, just like sheer intellect and expertise. You know, you also want people that just like Gel, really? Well, I would describe it as like you want a diverse group of people with a similar worldview. So you want various.
Mike Rome: you know. You want a very diverse team. But like when it comes to the stuff that I'm showing you. Now, if you believe this stuff, let's say like 7 out of 11 of these principles, you're like, I just really believe this stuff with all my heart. You want to hire people who have that same worldview because it's just. It's so you can't change people or it's very, very hard. And so I think that's something really important. It doesn't mean
Mike Rome: hire. Just a bunch of people that look like you or look like me like. That's not what I'm saying. I'm saying a diverse group, various experiences, all of that stuff is great different levels of experience and expertise. But there's some of these things, where like, if you believe that like, for example, sustainable growth is about not just scaling, but also being really mindful of profitability throughout. Even if you're a venture backed company
Mike Rome: you just want to hire someone who believes that, too, as opposed to someone who's just like, let's grow at all costs and we'll just like continue to raise money and try to time and exit. And again, there's some companies that have done really well like that. But mo, most companies have have really, you know, haven't ended well, if they believe that. So that that's just one example.
Mike Rome: cool. So sustainable growth means mastering scale and unit economics, I think, something you guys should think about is again the stage you're at. We'll get into stages. But if you're still trying to figure out. If you build something enough people want, and it's like retaining you only want to spend money on customer acquisition to get enough people in the funnel to figure out
Mike Rome: what are, you know? Are are people sticking around? You're not trying to scale yet, right? Like you're trying to validate is the product good enough?
Mike Rome: It doesn't mean you shouldn't do paid acquisition, or something like that. You should just be really mindful of like the use case for it. You're not ready to scale. So so this is one of those things that seems a lot more obvious. But heck! 5 years ago. Especially during Covid. There's a lot of companies that were just kind of growing at all costs. It's it's you know there's kind of. There's kind of 3 things that matter. I think if you're trying to build a durable business customer acquisition, retention and margins
Mike Rome: and customer acquisition is the easiest of 3,
Mike Rome: and so, you know, especially in in venture, when money was easier and stuff like that. It was really easy to kind of get hooked on acquisition specifically paid acquisition. It's kind of like a drug.
Mike Rome: and then, you know, just con continuing to say, we'll figure out retention. We'll figure out margins but you know we wanna like keep growing but if you don't kind of master the sequence of figuring out retention and then starting to scale, and then kind of keen in our margins as you're scaling it gets really tough. So
Mike Rome: people call me a growth. Guy. But for me, like growth and kind of this idea of profitability are pretty equal. Or or when I think about growth, you know, that's not just customer acquisition, it's retention as well. And so I'm very. I'm a very big believer in cross functional growth
Mike Rome: so customer acquisition matters. But there's all sorts of things marketers and salespeople and product people can do within the product to to, you know, bring in more qualified leads and and help retain them. So I think this is really important. Like, if you hear someone talking about growth like, remember, growth isn't isn't just customer acquisition. It's retention, too. And you really want to be mindful of like
Mike Rome: the cost to do this. It's okay if it doesn't make sense to start, and it's not profitable to start. But you always want to be mindful of it, and you always want to make sure, like you're making progress and moving in the right direction. Again, there's a really cool read here that I would. I would recommend.
Mike Rome: So it's another one of my favorite measurements. It's a little bit different for B, 2 B and sas, if you guys click on this link here, you'll be taken to a 5 part blog post and the second post.
Mike Rome: talks about this in the context of b 2 b businesses. So I've kind of illustrated it more simply in the context of a consumer business, just because the calculation is a little bit easier. But the same logic applies. And so there's this really cool fund. It's called social capital. Right right now. It's just the guy who started the growth team at Facebook, made a bunch of money, became a billionaire
Mike Rome: own part of the Golden State warriors for a while and kind of started this fund. And one of the really cool things they did in the early days is they open, sourced. How they do diligence. And so they were a very mathematical fund. They thought, like you could really use numbers to figure out, you know, if they should invest in a company.
Mike Rome: Obviously, there's more to numbers team. Right? There's all of these things that are hard to measure. But the things that you can measure they did a really nice job at open sourcing it. And so this link right here, or if you guys just Google right now, like diligence at social capital. You'll come to this like 5 part blog series, where they're basically like, this is how we measure companies we're thinking of investing in. And this is how we recommend they measure themselves beyond, like our investment.
Mike Rome: Right again, cut cutting through the noise. Are we growing? How healthy is the growth stuff like that. And so one of my favorite metrics, as you guys start to think about scale is, how are you scaling?
Mike Rome: And so there's 2 graphs here. And they basically illustrate 2 very different types of growth. But we're like the compound monthly growth rate on, you know, revenue customers, whatever is actually the same. So what? What I'm gonna try to illustrate here is like.
Mike Rome: you don't just want to look at your top line growth, whether it's customers or revenue, or whatever you actually need to really dissect where it's coming from, to figure out how healthy it is to figure out if you have product market fit, and you're ready to scale. So again, keeping things simple to start.
Mike Rome: let's say we're talking about your customers. There's there's 3 types of customers. And let's say we're talking about October, the month that we're in now. So a new customer would be someone who comes in and uses the product for the 1st time this month ideally, is paying for it.
Mike Rome: A reactivated customer also used the product this month. They did not use it in the immediate preceding months of September, but they use it in some period before that. Okay, and then there's a retained customer. Also use the product in October, and they did use it in the immediate preceding month. So there's these 3 types of customers.
Mike Rome: And they're all mutually exclusive. And they have they. They. It's gonna sum to your total customers. Okay, so the really important thing to remember about this and the really cool thing about this blog post is
Mike Rome: this is a company I worked on and if you looked at the compound monthly growth rate on customers.
Mike Rome: they were both about 10%. So you know, this is looking at 12 months over time, month over month. They're growing at about 10% month over month, the same right?
Mike Rome: But then, when you break the growth out by who's driving this this top line growth? Is it new customers? Is it customers coming back or is it customers that are just ultimately sticking around? You see 2 very different stories. So if you look at this graph, you can basically see how churn. You basically see how the bottom half of this graph is like, I'm almost like a mirror to the top half of this graph.
Mike Rome: I won't get too far into this. But you guys can read the blog post more. Basically, what's happening here is
Mike Rome: for every like 1.1. Customers that they're gaining.
Mike Rome: they're losing one customer to churn, which is the opposite of retained users. So if you look at this graph over here, where you know, if you look on the negative side of the access, you notice here. How like these churn customers in green? They very much don't mirror what's on the positive side of this graph? Right? And so this is a different point where, again, this company is growing at the same overall customer growth rate month over month. But it's largely being driven by retained customers.
Mike Rome: So like this is the graph you you want all day. So whereas this company it was like for every 1.1 customers they were gaining, they were losing one for this one for every 1.7 customers they were gaining, they were losing one this is a consumer company. Consumer companies tend to be default churn, whereas, like a a Saas company, tends to be default, retain. So these like ratios. This, like you know, for every you know, positive contribution to growth. How many are you losing
Mike Rome: that
Mike Rome: benchmark is very different, for, like a b 2 b business, or like a sas business, but the same principles apply. In that you want to make sure you don't have a certain growth rate, even if it looks good where most of that growth is being driven by new customer acquisition. But you have a really leaky funnel. In this case
Mike Rome: you're not ready to scale. You're not ready to think about customer acquisition channels. You should be talking to as many users as possible to figure out why they're coming in and why they're not sticking around so again, you can do some marketing to drive some customers in the door, but only enough for you to get that Intel and learn, or only enough to say, hey? We iterated on the product. We think we've improved churn. Let's drive some more customers through the funnel to see if the graph looks better.
Mike Rome: So there's just like a very clear distinction there and like, why you're doing marketing, or why you're acquiring. You're not ready for scale. You're trying to validate retention.
Annie Brown: I have a quick.
Mike Rome: Go ahead!
Annie Brown: Just so I'm I'm kind of clear on the math, because, you know, I've talked to investors that want to know about like, yeah, new retained. And like how we show that. So I'd love to like show a chart like this. So essentially is this over a 1 month period. And then so any new customers in that month are a separate separate line. But then, if they stay, then they become a retained, if they're a lost customer and they come back. Then they're reactivated. Customer.
Mike Rome: Yeah, so I will. I will pull it up.
Annie Brown: Okay. Great.
Mike Rome: I like doing this over like a monthly basis. So here's like the
Mike Rome: Here's like the growth series.
Mike Rome: this is the 1st post that I'm describing. There's kind of like
Mike Rome: 5 or 6
Mike Rome: By the way, some of the people have like left social capital, and they have, like other ways they measure newer ways. I still really like this one. But this post, for example, it talks about the calculation. I like to do this on a monthly basis, but it really kind of depends on
Mike Rome: it kind of depends on like the sort of like expected usage cadence of the product. As well. Right? Like, if someone, if you guys build software for like
Mike Rome: I'm making stuff up. But like expense reporting you wouldn't expect someone to go in there and use that daily, right? Like. It's like a that's sort of like a monthly endeavor. Right? And so you kind of have to be mindful of the product. But yeah, the the calculation to your point is.
Mike Rome: so so there's 3 types new resurrected, retained. The Calcs are all in here. So you guys can can take a look at it too. This is another kind of illustration of the graph where this one is is not as good. Because basically your churned.
Mike Rome: it's the opposite of retained in that calculation. It's mirroring your positive contributions to growth. Let's see if they have. So again, a graph like this is is much healthier. But basically the calc on new, reactivated and retained are again for October. Like everyone is a customer in the month we're talking about.
Mike Rome: Okay. So we're talking about October new. They're using it for the 1st time in October.
Mike Rome: retained. They're using it in October. They are not using it in September, but they use it in some preceding period before that. I don't care if it's January, February March.
Mike Rome: whatever, and then a retain. They've used it for 2 consecutive months. So they're using it in October, and they also used it in September. So if you summed those those 3 buckets, Annie, you would get the sum of total customers. And if you if you just kind of look in in here, they they talk about how the churn calculation is effectively the opposite of retain. But yeah, you can. You can also shoot me a note if you have questions. My emails. Just Mike at moonwater studio. So.
Annie Brown: Yeah, cause.
Mike Rome: Appreciate it.
Annie Brown: I. When I get into the calculations part, it seems like very straightforward, and then I get all lost in like new versus turned, and all that sort of stuff. So this is super helpful.
Mike Rome: Totally. And then they have like, I said, if you're a b 2 b business, the this they call this like accounting for like accounting for growth. The second one kind of speaks to like Sas and B, 2 B, and there's a few more components in the calculation. But again. It's just the high level again. You gotta figure out the calculation. I think the high level thing to keep with you is like.
Mike Rome: if you're growing well, that's not enough. You need to understand what's driving the growth and what's driving the growth is gonna dictate what your team should focus on going back to this whole idea of like focus is like the lifeblood of startups like you can't do thousands of things. Well, you're gonna end up with like a bunch of half baked projects. You want to figure out the small subset of things to to really like, you know, for you and your team to to do the work your life on.
Fabio Caironi: Hey, Mike? Sorry. Would you mind repeating quickly some. And the new users was the one that use it for one month and retain 2 to 3 months. Can you just
Fabio Caironi: circle back on the numbers.
Mike Rome: Sure. So Fabio, let's say, let's say we're talking about, we're we're so this graph is measuring this for 12 different months. Okay, so let's say we're measuring this for the month of October.
Mike Rome: And so again, it kind of depends if you're measuring customers or revenue. The second post in the sequence talks about revenue. It's just a little more complex. So let's let's start with like, let's say, we're just trying to measure customers. Okay.
Mike Rome: a new customer in October. They've they're using your product for the 1st time in October.
Mike Rome: Okay, they haven't used it. This is the 1st time they've come in the 1st time they're using it. We're calling them new for October. Okay?
Mike Rome: Someone who's retained. They're using it in October 2. All 3 of these groups are using it in October, because they're all summing to your total customers so retained are using it in October, and they're also using it in September.
Mike Rome: Okay, the immediate preceding period retained are using it. Then, too.
Mike Rome: okay, if you did this for weeks, it's the same sort of concept. If we're in week, 3 retained are using in week 3. But they're also using in the immediate preceding period. Week 2, and then reactivate is the last one. So again, they're active. This month October.
Mike Rome: They were not active in September. They did not use the product then.
Mike Rome: Okay, but they had used it sometime before that, so they weren't pure new October wasn't the 1st time it was some other time. It just wasn't the immediate preceding month, so if you sum each of those together, you have all of your October customers. They have to be one of those. There's no.
Fabio Caironi: Gotcha.
Mike Rome: There's no other type of user and so again, what you want to really figure out is you ideally, you're reactivating people at a healthy clip, too. But the most important one is that that top line growth, that compound monthly growth rate on customers or revenue. It's not just being driven by new customers like people are staying around
Mike Rome: and retain customers are a key component. Now, what's a healthy sort of retention benchmark? I mean, you guys, there's a bunch of AI startups in here. You guys can all prompt for this. That really depends on your industry type of business model. But you can go in and figure that out right? Like, I said, whether you're consumer B, 2 B, like they're going to be different thresholds.
Mike Rome: so you're gonna kind of have to dig a little bit to figure out what's good for you. But the high level concept is like growth needs to be driven by retention and ideally reactivation. In addition to customer acquisition.
Mike Rome: cool.
Fabio Caironi: Thank you.
Mike Rome: No problem. We just talked about this one. So I'm gonna keep rolling. I alluded to this one, too. Marketing's purpose. Pre and post product market fit is different. This this is one of those things where everything I'm telling you guys is not rocket science. But
Mike Rome: I'm sure you know this. I know it when you're in it. It's easy to lose sight of this stuff, and it's the stuff that I would continue to come back to, because I believe, based on personal experience, like, if you don't keep coming back to it and kind of stay grounded around these principles. You know. Usually you get into some tough situations you could avoid. So
Mike Rome: again, if you're not retaining people right now, or let's let's take another scenario. Let's say, you're driving lots of users, but you're not able to convert them to like paying customers right?
Mike Rome: And, by the way, I it's probably coming through. I I work largely with venture backed businesses. To this day, I would say I'm a little bit more of a conservative venture person. Again, I believe in this idea of balancing growth and profitability. You guys kind of got to figure out
Mike Rome: your circle, you know. Does that worldview resonate well with you? I believe it's the best way to build like a very durable business but also because of that, like, I probably will never work on a Facebook because that wasn't. That wasn't the mindset there, right? It was like, we're growing at this incredible clip. We'll figure out how to monetize later
Mike Rome: that can work, and it can work really well. It's just the odds are so stacked against you that it's not something that I'm you know, very interested in pursuing, but going back to like again, you guys gotta kind of figure out your tribe and what you believe in and stuff like that. I'm gonna finish this thought, and then I will call on Dave. He's got his hand up. Cool. So again, let's say the product's not retaining or you know you're not able to graduate people to paying customers. They're users of the product, but they're not paying.
Mike Rome: That would be a situation where I would say, Hey, if you guys want to spend some money on customer acquisition, go for it. But just be mindful of why you're doing it. You're not doing it to scale. You're not ready to scale. You're doing it to like, learn to get more users in the funnel and more data
Mike Rome: to potentially talk to them or to, you know, potentially. Look at quantitative tools to see what they're doing on the site. Where in the flows are they falling off ideally? You're merging like quantitative and qualitative information. But the purpose of marketing is to bring enough people in to try to improve this problem. That's really crucial to fixing, to scale your business. Once you do that once retention is good enough, right? Or once you have like a trial to paid conversion rate. That's good enough.
Mike Rome: Then yeah, marketing becomes different. Right? You're trying to scale at certain unit economics. And so again, you just want to be really mindful, because that can kind of dictate the channels that you use. It can dictate how you set those channels up creative, all of that good stuff. So a any questions on this one. I think it's pretty straightforward. And then, Dave, go ahead and just hop in. But yeah, marketing's purpose. Pre and post product market fit. It's different.
Dave Scott: Yeah. So I guess my question is is like, all these numbers are great for Saas based businesses. But what if you sell a product.
Mike Rome: We tried it.
Dave Scott: What should I be keying on? I sell games.
Mike Rome: And so.
Dave Scott: One of the challenges that I have is that you know I've got. I've got revenue
Dave Scott: but Vcs don't understand my business model, which is that I sell a game. It costs $60.
Dave Scott: There is no retention or engagement numbers associated. They buy the game, they play the game
Dave Scott: and so help. Do you have any thoughts about what sort of metrics I could provide that can get a Vc. Comfortable with the success of my business without it being a Saas based business where I've got engagement numbers and retention numbers and jazz like that.
Mike Rome: For sure. And and, by the way, Dave, like I work on a bunch of consumer businesses that aren't sas and a lot of them have a retention component. I like those types of businesses. But I definitely work on products where, like.
Mike Rome: yeah, the retention cycle is just or like the repeat purchase rate is just much lower and stuff like that. What I would say is like, just show them the unit economics. I mean what what they want to know is that like this, business can scale right? And so for a business like that, you want to. I think you want to be 1st order, profitable, right? And you want to basically be able to show
Mike Rome: that you figured out a couple of acquisition avenues to do that. If retention is just not there. You got to be 1st order. Profitable? So
Mike Rome: you know, that's that's how we run it. Like again, we we have a couple of these businesses that. We like manage paid acquisition for and it's just a different game, because, you know, you can't account for retention and improve lifetime value. It's kind of like, you know what what happens on that 1st order? Is really it. The other thing I would say is like.
Mike Rome: you know, this might be like the hard answer you should talk to other people. You should talk to other people specifically in the game space, right who have kind of overcome a similar problem. But I think about so sorry. What kind of game is like a physical game, like a like a board game? Or are we talking like a like a computer game?
Dave Scott: Yeah, it's it's more of a board game. But we have a digital. So you can buy it digitally, or you could buy it physically and so physical. We've got distribution
Dave Scott: and then which, as you could probably imagine, is not the most sophisticated in terms of insight. I can't pull a lot of insight out of my distribution. But then I also have also sell direct and through direct. I have some economics on it, and so when you're talking about sort of
Dave Scott: unit economics, she's talking about just proving to them that I've got a strong, gross margin, and that every cell is profitable, is that? Is that? Is that what you're saying?
Mike Rome: Yeah, pretty much. There, I we kind of look at profitability a few ways. The 1st way is gross margin. Another way that I like to look at. It is like what we would call like contribution profit. So you know, we'd be taking your sales times, your gross margin, and then we'd be subtracting out the marketing costs
Mike Rome: like truly assess profitability. And I think what you want to be able to show a Vc. Is you found it one or 2, or ideally 3 channels where that contribution profit line just keeps going up as you put more money into the thing. The other thing that I would say, though, is like
Mike Rome: I would study. I think it's fine to start here. I would push back a little bit, and that I would say, like I would study other
Mike Rome: games. Like the one that I'm thinking of is the guys who built cards against humanity like
Mike Rome: they figured out a really cool retention playbook with launching additional products. Right? And so I think if you can kind of like, tell the story of like the unit economics are really strong off of 1st order.
Mike Rome: and we have these plans. You know I don't. I mean, this is, you guys are early, right? Like, it's not a guarantee. But you have these plans, for, like you've studied competitors and adjacent companies. And you think there's this sequence of additional products or like upsells, or add ons right, like extended packs to like layer into this.
Mike Rome: So to me, that would kind of be the narrative of like, yeah, the like 1st order profitability, and then also, like, you know, here's our high level plan of how you know, even though we don't really have like retention baked in now. We're still doing pretty well, and we we have like this line of sight. We have like a retention based roadmap right? And this roadmap isn't just our intuition. We've like studied history, like we've studied the companies that have come before us in the space. And we're, you know, we've got a clear roadmap
Mike Rome: to start
Mike Rome: testing some of the things we like from those models. So to me, it's a little bit of a combination of both. I feel like just in my experience, like.
Mike Rome: if you don't. If you don't have a you don't need to have. If the unit economics are good, you don't necessarily need to have retention to start. But I think you're gonna run into a lot of Vcs who just like are probably like this. This thing can't be big enough for, like the returns that I want my fund without, like a plan around retention. Now, maybe there's Vcs that are very specific to games that could totally be true. I just don't have any experience there. So anyway, I've given you a handful of thoughts hopefully, is it like kind of point you in a direction.
Dave Scott: Yeah, I mean, yeah, I think it's actually helpful because I haven't thought about the unit economics line. Yeah, I mean, we have a line of products. The problem is is when we learn through jobs to be done is that
Dave Scott: because they bought my 1st product doesn't necessarily mean they don't. They're not gonna buy my second product. And when I ask them why, it's like, Well, you know, your second product was based on a movie called Pacific rim, and I'm not really into large robots. It had nothing to do with whether or not they were passionate about my games. More of the subject matter expert just didn't appeal to them.
Mike Rome: Yeah, but I think that stuff and I'm I'm I'm trying to push you here, Dave, like this is way easier for me to say, like not being you. I totally get that. But I think like that, like I would be hammering customer research like that. And if you get that same comment.
Mike Rome: You know, if you talk to 50 people, and that's the feedback you get on retention. You know, 50% of the time. 60% of the time I would be like, well, heck, how the how do I solve that problem? Right? Like, maybe we need to pivot our retention strategy. And I I think the really cool thing you're doing is like you're talking to customers. I think, you know, that's another thing, too, is like.
Dave Scott: Neil.
Mike Rome: the the other thing, too. Here is like, it's so. It's again easier for me to say it's harder when you're in it. But, like
Mike Rome: startups, have this tendency to like hole up in a conference room, or hole up on zoom and try to like solve all these problems. Just go talk to customers. I think like when I think about the most money that I've made companies, because, like, I just went and talked to a customer like. And and specifically I went and listened to them right? I didn't try to like force my idea down their throat. I said, like, here's what we're doing. What do you think? And I just let them talk. And I just, you know. And and this is something as you scale
Mike Rome: you hide. You know you have some success. You raise some money. You can hire some more people. This tension gets harder and harder where, like teams just start making decisions
Mike Rome: in a call, whereas at first, st like you were out on the front lines talking to users. And I think this is stuff, too, where it's like it's good for you guys to talk to, you know, quote unquote experts in certain disciplines, whether it's me or someone else. But like at the end of the day, like, you know, some of you guys are are doing some pretty forward thinking stuff, but like no one's trying to like send humans to Mars like
Mike Rome: there's probably like, if just go talk to a customer and figure out why you're not retaining right? And and again, it's it's it's 1 of those things about startups where, like, I think, the roadmap is pretty straightforward. I'm trying to give you that with principles.
Mike Rome: Executing is really darn hard, but don't over, complicate how to like? How do we? You know? How do we continue to survive another day and get better and better? Because reality is, it's like startups are not sexy like you either survive long enough to figure it out and be successful or you don't. And it's messy. It's really messy, but I think like I've never, you know, like I went and talked to customers, and it wasn't helpful.
Mike Rome: said, no one ever right like that. I just don't think that's ever happened. So. Yeah, Dave, I feel like you're on a path. I would just like be talking to them. And you know, just like, have a have a growth mindset, and be really open to what they have to say. And what does that mean for informing what you do next? And kind of marrying that with like studying, studying what other people have done. I did this. I worked on this company called Hallow
Mike Rome: for a little while. It's it's basically like calm for Catholics, the biggest.
Dave Scott: For Catholics in the world.
Mike Rome: Yeah, it's it sounds kind of crazy, but it's the biggest Catholic app in the world. They took out a super bowl ad the other year, because they're just like absolutely killing it. Their revenue per employee is like absolutely ridiculous. And one of these projects I did for them is, we don't have to get into. Why, but for a lot of reasons, we thought
Mike Rome: there was a lot of parallels between how Spotify grew and how we could grow.
Mike Rome: And so I spent 2 weeks with their head of product, just reverse engineering. How spotify grew for the last 15 years, and then going back through and saying, was this thing applicable to us, or was it not? Is it not relevant anymore because they did it back in 2,016? And it's 2021
Mike Rome: but the whole point of like studying history like talking to customers talking to other companies in your space. I just think that stuff is is often overlooked, and and again, growth is hard. But I think people over complicate like, how do we figure out the path and and narrow the focus.
Dave Scott: Cool thanks.
Mike Rome: No problem. I'm gonna hop over this one in the spirit of time. Yeah, I love this one, too, again. Going back to the whole hard skills or soft skills of growth. You don't need a growth team. The whole company is a growth team. This isn't my quote. But I feel really strongly about it. I come across a lot of early stage companies, and they're like, Hey, should we hire head of growth? Should we hire ahead of marketing.
Mike Rome: that answer, like is, is kind of it depends. You have to dig deeper. But something I see 80% of the time when I come into companies to advise, or even when I was doing more of the fractional growth work is.
Mike Rome: I don't care if you're b 2 b business. I don't care if you're a consumer business. I don't care if you're consumer physical products business like Dave's there's various functions for growth in your team. Right? Typically there's marketing.
Mike Rome: There's sales, and there's product, and customer support, I would say, is part of product customer service, customer experience stuff like that. Sometimes there's other functions as well, for like physical products. But the the whole point is, I oftentimes come into a company, and one of these function is is pulling most of the weight.
Mike Rome: and
Mike Rome: they're sort of more accountable to growth than the other. And the companies that I've seen that just absolutely rip. They have. This mindset of like
Mike Rome: growth isn't marketing's job. Growth isn't products. Job growth isn't sales job. It's everyone's job. And we all just have this unique skill set to apply to growth. Right like what a salesperson is good at is different than what a developer is good at.
Mike Rome: But I really believe in these cultures where, you know, sort of, they're organized around this idea of, like, we all have a valuable input to contribute to growth thinking about one of the 1st companies that I worked for that was venture back. And
Mike Rome: what so? The the most money that I ever helped this company make came from me just like lobbying a product team to implement something that customer support was screaming about.
Mike Rome: I didn't do any. It wasn't my idea. All I did was like, put a little math and data behind this idea. These people on the front lines were saying, like, this is a gaping hole in the product right? Like, if we want to scale thoughtfully, we have to fix this. And it just goes back to that idea of like a lot of the best product. Ideas for growth that I've heard have come from customer support. Right? They come from maybe the lowest paid person in the company who's been on the job for 3 weeks. And I think this whole idea of like
Mike Rome: good good growth ideas are all around us, and really making sure you like, build a culture. That growth is everyone's job, at least until you know you're call it 50 plus employees. Then maybe you have like this specialized team cross functional team around growth. But I'm very much like anti that in the early days, like growth should be everyone's job. If growth is just put on a small subset of people. If you have a team of 5 or 6, and growth is, you know, really.
Mike Rome: you know, less than 10, call it, and 2 people are more responsible for growth than the other 7. It just doesn't end well, they're going to get demoralized. They're probably going to leave. You want a culture where people feel like
Mike Rome: they can all bring something to to the table, to grow the business and back to the 1st principle of growth is water. Everything follows from growth. It's like the one thing you need as a startup. A culture like this can can really take you far
Mike Rome: cool, cool. Let me do time. Check all right. I'm gonna I'm gonna fly through these last ones. We already talked about this a little bit. There's kind of different stages of growth. I've hammered this depending on the stage. That sort of should dictate your priorities. When you are
Mike Rome: ready to scale. There's a few different models that I like for thinking about how to scale. What ideas should we test? What idea should we prioritize? They're all listed on this this deck that I'll I'll I'll bring over funnels is just an acronym for
Mike Rome: acquisition activation retention revenue and referral. So those are 5 levers that you can scale off of acquisition is, how do we bring people to this thing that we built activation? How do we get them to do what we want
Mike Rome: retention. How do we get them to continue to do what we want? Referral? How do we get people to have such a great experience to become the marketers for us revenue. How do we get them to engage in some monetization behavior? Or if people are already paying for the product for so it's a really nice framework for kind of figuring out like, okay, here's the levers at our disposal. Here's the people on our team. Let's build a roadmap to kind of execute against these different levers for growth.
Mike Rome: There's other more new school models that are listed over here. You guys can kind of take a look at them, or we can, we can dig into them in the QA.
Mike Rome: Price is my favorite way to prioritize again. I think ruthless prioritization is the lifeblood of a startup. So
Mike Rome: I think, you know, let's say you're using a framework like this to figure out how you guys should grow going back to the funnels framework and taking that 1st a of acquisition. Let's say you come up with a bunch of ideas of different channels and tactics within those channels to drive
Mike Rome: customers. Whether or not you do it comes down to this idea of ice. So you know, let's say that you want to test paid acquisition. Right? Specifically, Meta paid acquisition. The question that I would be asking is, what's the impact? If this thing works. What's our level of confidence in it? Working? Dave, have other great? Have other games grown via Meta, you know, paid paid meta acquisition.
Mike Rome: There's really cool like tools you can use to figure out traffic distribution of competitor companies and stuff like that. If they have, you'd have more confidence in the idea. And the other one is like ease. What's the level of effort to get the thing done? I really like like high impact, high confidence, low effort ideas who doesn't? But you're kind of using frameworks like this to
Mike Rome: assess 50 different ideas of things that you guys could be doing based on your priorities at this given time, and you want to go with the ones with the highest I score, I think, in the early days, waiting ease and effort more so than the other 2. Impacting confidence is is really helpful. And the reason it's more it's really helpful is because of this idea of a growth flywheel.
Mike Rome: And so the fact, like speed, is very, very important. And it's the best way to learn. So the reason like when I'm prioritizing, and you know, by the way, there's other frameworks. I just like ice, because it's really simple. The reason I'm saying like I would wait. How quickly can you get an idea into the world, and ease heavier than impact and confidence is to get this flywheel going. Of. The more tests you run, the more learnings you have.
Mike Rome: the more learnings you have the better. The next test is right, because you're using those those learnings to inform your tests, and the better the tests you run, the higher the success rates, and ultimately the faster path to growth, that all starts with high velocity and doing stuff faster. And so taking easier things. To start often is a way to kind of like jump. Start the flywheel.
Mike Rome: The second thing I would say is, even though speed is really important. So you guys can just learn faster to figure out how to get to the next stage.
Mike Rome: This, the sort of safeguard on speed is, you can only move as fast as like. Only move so fast that you're still able to capture learnings and come up for air, and let that inform what you do next. I come into a lot of companies who are moving fast.
Mike Rome: but
Mike Rome: they're not actually capturing learnings. They're doing all the things right. All this stuff across marketing sales product. And they're going so fast that, like no one's really coming up for air and saying.
Mike Rome: Was it worth it right? Did that work, did it not? I don't care if it fails. Most things are going to fail. Most things in startups fail. But you need to be asking the question, and then you need to be like going back and reprioritizing your roadmap accordingly, because of that learning. So you want to move really fast. But if you're moving so fast that you're not coming up for air and actually asking like.
Mike Rome: what happened because of this? And what should we do next, you should slow down.
Mike Rome: So speed is the most important thing. But learnings is is a really close second, and they go hand in hand.
Mike Rome: One of the last ones I have here is
Mike Rome: When you find stuff that works, whether it's product sales marketing, I don't care double down like, I said. Startups are hard.
Mike Rome: It's really hard to find things that work. I love this phrase like when you're digging for gold and find it. Keep digging. Sometimes I come into companies, and they have, you know, one or 2 sort of acquisition channels or things that are working within a product flow, and instead of saying, How do we just like milk this thing as hard as possible? How do we double down, double down, and like
Mike Rome: really, just like, lean into this and and run sort of subtasks that are variations of this. So we can push this thing that's working harder. They say, let's go replicate this success somewhere else in the product funnel or on this other marketing channel. And that usually just doesn't happen you wanna like
Mike Rome: diverse way of growing right, because that's a way to just sort of like mitigate risk in your business. I'm not saying like, you want all of your eggs and like one marketing channel. And that's not what I'm saying. I'm just saying, when you find stuff that works as it relates to growth.
Mike Rome: keep digging, spend most of your time pushing harder there and spend a small subset of your time saying, Hey, this thing's going to saturate. It's going away. We should have a little bit of a chip on our shoulder to continue to find new ways to grow. But don't spend the majority of your time on that
Mike Rome: last thing I have is make time to play offense. So yeah, I think one thing that I thought a lot about is startups are inherently resource constrained. That's why I'm so bullish on focus. I think one of the ironic things is like,
Mike Rome: you know, the classic ways that startups constrained or they don't have enough money. They don't have enough people blah blah but I actually think like the scarcest resource in startups right now is this idea of time to think?
Mike Rome: I see a lot of startups out there again that are just again doing all the things they're moving really fast.
Mike Rome: But they're not actually like stepping back and like thinking and making time to. I call this playing offense right? And I thought a lot about why this is, I think I think, startups that are really busy. It's like, even if they fail, they're kind of like they feel like. Subconsciously they can say.
Mike Rome: Well, we threw everything at it, and I very much disagree. I think if you're doing too many things like you can't do the work of your life on those things, and ultimately you just end up half assing a lot of things. And you never really push this thing to its full potential right? So I would say the one thing that shouldn't be a constraint is like, you guys should have time to think. You should have time to play offense. You should have time to like study the market study competitors like
Mike Rome: sometimes the right answer isn't just to like, do do. Sometimes it's like to take a step back right and really kind of reflect on the macro, and just kind of bring yourself out of the day. So anyway, I've I've talked at the group for way too long.
Mike Rome: I think growth is optional. That doesn't mean it's easy, but I believe that there's a series of principles and guideposts that if you can, if you can keep them close. You've got a much better shot. So anyway, thanks for hearing me out. And yeah, let's dig into QA.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Awesome. Thank you so much.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Folks, let's just use the little hand. Raise button.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: We'll go straight from there. Monica.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): I just want to say the last slide really resonated with me, because I think we live in a society that really rewards busyness and encourages business as a norm. But it's really important to be strategic. And that requires slowing down right? And when you're strategic, you're also more efficient. So that's definitely my philosophy. My question is.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): if you're relying on word of mouth, if you're trying to build a flywheel to ultimately rely on word of mouth, is there a way to measure like how many clients you need to to really
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): take advantage of word of mouth? Does that make sense.
Mike Rome: Yeah. Yeah, I think I would be digging into kind of so when I go back to these growth models. Sorry. That was Monica. Right? Cool?
Mike Rome: yeah, I would just be like studying network effects specifically. And the types of businesses that have made that work. I've kind of got them here.
Mike Rome: There's definitely like some measures like there's this one called a viral coefficient that you should take a look at. I haven't had the luxury of working on a lot of viral businesses Hallow is is probably the exception, and network effects were really big deal for that business. So I would kind of go back and and study some of these companies I would also like,
Mike Rome: are, are there like companies that?
Mike Rome: maybe they're direct competitors, or maybe like they're adjacent companies for you like, are there companies that maybe they're not direct competitors, but like you think they've grown very well via vert word of mouth, and you think they're an interesting analog for your business like, do any of those come to mind for you.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Yeah. So just to take a step back. We're not a social media company. We're like a Pharma B, 2 B enterprise. Sas, so the word of mouth is not viral. It's pretty slow, like someone has to have been using this product at a company, and maybe they change jobs. And then they go to another company and they're interested in buying a solution. And then they talk about their experience. It's much slower
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): social media. But in terms of like an analogous company. I I am trying to find companies that have grown in our space that are not competing, but have the same prospects. So I'm trying to line up interviews to ask like them about their road to market strategy and how long it took?
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): So hopefully, I can get some data from that.
Mike Rome: So I think you're doing the right thing like talk. I love that angle, too. Where? It's like, not direct competitors, but they have a
Mike Rome: similar Icp. I would do that, and then
Mike Rome: talk like talking to them like, let's.
Mike Rome: I think, a lot of times. The answer is like, let's marry quant and qualitative data. So you're kind of checking the the qualitative data box there. Another thing you guys can do.
Mike Rome: that
Mike Rome: should be applicable to most of the businesses. You want to find businesses that are like not 5 or 10 years ahead of you. You want to find businesses that are like. I don't know a year or 2 ahead of you.
Mike Rome: but you can use a tool like one I like is called Sem Rush. But these are just tools to like, kind of look at share of traffic for different websites and companies and stuff like that. There's other ones similar web, whatever. It doesn't really matter. I just like the Ui here. So this was an analysis that I recently did for a company. Again, going back to the whole idea of like.
Mike Rome: let's not make this like startups are hard. Don't make them harder. Let's study how other companies are doing it. That we think are highly relevant to our business. Again, you have to kind of decide what highly relevant means. But what these 2 tables show you is there's a so there's a there's 4 companies here. I blocked out the names just for client confidentiality. There's 4 companies here, and then there's this sort of total or average row at the bottom.
Mike Rome: And so what this is looking at is, I use one of these tools to basically say for each one of these 4 companies. We'll call this one A, BCD, and again, this is the total. It's showing share of traffic by all of these different sort of like these are like classic
Mike Rome: channels, right? Ways, people drive traffic on the Internet. So like reading this left to right, this 1st company, company, a 60% of traffic's coming direct, 2% via referral, 31% for via organic search. And so on. And so you can kind of read it for all companies. The bottom here is an average of these 4 companies which I'm kind of calling like an industry average. You could use more companies if you wanted to have like a more robust industry average
Mike Rome: But basically, this is saying, you know, for for these 4 companies, on average, 64% of traffic comes from direct when you look at all of them. Where it gets really interesting, is the second
Mike Rome: table, which is an index. So a neutral index, meaning that this company is growing via this channel at the same rate of the industry, would be 100. That's a perfectly neutral index. So what this 93 is saying is, it's comparing the 60% of traffic that's coming from direct
Mike Rome: for this company, for the industry average of 64. So they're pretty close. But this company is slightly under indexing right? That's why this is 93. A perfectly neutral index would be 100.
Mike Rome: So where this gets really interesting is, you start to see like this company is driving a much higher share of traffic from direct than the rest of the con. The rest of the channels, 80% for 64. That's how you get this high index of 125. Basically, anything in green here is is a high index and anything in red. Here is a low index. So.
Mike Rome: Monica, this is a really long, winded way of kind of saying I would find companies that are highly relevant to your business. They're 12 to 24 months ahead of you. Maybe they're direct competitors. Maybe they just have the same Icp to your point. Maybe you want to cut this out a few different ways and figure out like, how are they growing?
Mike Rome: Right? And you know, this is 3rd party data. I I don't like think too hard about the absolute numbers, but I think it's right directionally, you can derive some really interesting insights that, like these 2 companies in the space are sleeping on organic search relative to other players, right? Or this company right here. It's
Mike Rome: Let's see like this company right here this last company. It's it's over reliant on paid acquisition. This is. These are very high indexes relative to how paid acquisition is working for the rest of the business. So
Mike Rome: you know, there's lots of cool stuff you can do to just again study study what's happening in the space to get a hunch on how they're driving traffic. I know this isn't exactly your word of mouth question, but I think between doing analysis like this, and then also, just directly talking to people kind of marrying the qualitative and quant data probably be able to like, inform a pretty interesting direction around, like what are the most helpful things you can do
Mike Rome: to drive more like
Mike Rome: traffic, relevant traffic at like reasonable unit economics.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Yeah, that's interesting. So you said, all of this information is on semrush.
Mike Rome: Yeah, you might have to. It's like probably 100 bucks a month. They might have a free trial. But yeah, this is, if you just go to the like. If you go in there you go to like traffic analysis all I did. Here was I.
Mike Rome: I exported all their traffic
Mike Rome: and then these are just shared calculations. Right? So for this 1st company, the 60% is looking, you'll just export like the raw numbers like. Let's say this 1st company is doing 100,000 visitors from direct and making numbers up. This calculation is just a hundred 1,000, divided by, like the sum of their total traffic right? And you get the share, 60%.
Mike Rome: you can. You shoot me an email. If you're interested, I can like I can help you out with the index.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Okay. Thank you.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Awesome. Let's jump to Annie.
Annie Brown: Okay. Awesome. Yes, thank you for this. This has been like.
Annie Brown: super great for getting my brain working around around growth. I think.
Annie Brown: I really like what you said about dive into what you are doing well, or what seems to be working. So so far, all of our customers have actually come from speaking engagements. I've done so. A lot of thought leadership. I think a lot of customers like the academic background of our team, the expertise of our team. So that seems to be working well. I guess my question about
Annie Brown: speaking engagements is that obviously, you know, it takes a little while to plan. You have to get on on the schedule, so it can be a few months out.
Annie Brown: So for thought leadership in general. Have you seen any like growth hacking like ways to speed up thought leadership?
Annie Brown: at all are kind of like fast hacks for thought leadership? Or is thought leadership more like a. It's always going to be a long game.
Mike Rome: I think
Mike Rome: so. In general, I think good things take time. That being said. I don't think that's an excuse for you to throw your hands up and be like well.
Mike Rome: if in person. Speaking is the only avenue for thought leadership. Right? And so I mean, there's a lot of especially people who are trying to appeal like to other businesses right? And have, like these, higher sort of average client value. Sort of like accounts right? I think Linkedin is amazing for thought leadership. And there's a ton out there like
Mike Rome: I, we get a lot of our business from Linkedin. And ultimately, like, we've just gotten really comfortable giving away our playbook and just kind of trust, like
Mike Rome: twofold, like one. Hopefully, we can help some people. We've had a lot of people who've helped us. And then the other thing, too, is like, when you give away the playbook. If you give away really valuable things that are that are hard or helpful, and people don't know there's usually enough people out there who are just going to be like
Mike Rome: these people know what they're doing. I'm in their Icp. I'm just gonna let them do it right like they've proven to me that they know their stuff. And that is. Linkedin is a little bit more of a long game. But there's plenty of like, you know. There's plenty of like courses you can take, and stuff like that. I'm like, you know, how do you like? How? How you should build like sort of thought leadership posts, how you should come up with ideas on Linkedin.
Mike Rome: Justin Welsh is probably my favorite if you Google, him I think he has like a Linkedin course to kind of analyze, like what to talk about, and just kind of like templates of.
Mike Rome: So I would say, that's a little bit of a long game, though, like I've been. I've been doing Linkedin hard for 3 years where at 1st I kind of started posting once a week and then a few times a week, and now I post like 5 to 6 days a week, and I feel like in year 2. The flywheel kind of started to turn where we started to actually like generate business from it. And I feel like in Year 3. It's it's it's really starting to become clear but it didn't. So it didn't happen overnight,
Mike Rome: but.
Annie Brown: Kind of the same with like blog blog stuff, and like building up a blog presence like, is that worth investing in kind of early on, since it is a bit of a long game.
Mike Rome: I would go back to some of that channel. Analysis to figure out like is organic search, a way that other people in the space are growing and then cool tools like semrush can kind of tell you.
Mike Rome: Okay, let's say, like, you know, let's say you have a situation like this. Where? Let's say, you're you're this second, there, you're this last company. We're only 4% of your traffic is coming from organic search.
Mike Rome: But the average across these 4 companies is 24. Clearly, you're very behind, right? Like you could go into semrush. And then in there you could look at what are the top. You know, the top keywords and the top pages these other companies are converting on. And so all this stuff could sort of inform, should we invest here. Maybe. You know, SEO is very much alive and well, I would say the one the one downside is, it takes time and
Mike Rome: you know Linkedin is really good for getting in front of people right now. So you know, like a lot of things in startups. Andy, I feel like you kind of plant any seeds that are all hedges right, like each of the strategies, have their pros and cons. Some are more expensive, some are cheaper, some are faster. Some take longer. And ultimately, I think you want to kind of use data like you have to inform what to do next. But yeah, I think it'd be like a really you could do like some unbridled ideation with do you have anyone on your team like? Do you have a co-founder or any employees.
Annie Brown: Like they're the CTO.
Mike Rome: You guys could do some unbridled ideation where you're just trying to figure out like, what are all of the avenues for thought leadership, you know. And then I would just be kind of doing, you know, running little tests. And
Mike Rome: even if something like Linkedin takes time, I think if you kind of figure out like 5 thought leadership tests to run beyond in person events. And you kind of assess those 5. You know those 5 tests relative to one another.
Mike Rome: It's gonna be really hard to know what's working. But usually you can figure out like one or 2 of these are bad ideas. We tried them. They're just like they're like, there's leading indicators that the other ones are notably better. And in which case I would just keep leaning into those other ones. So
Mike Rome: yeah, there's lots of different avenues of thought leadership.
Annie Brown: Alright cool. Thank you so much.
Mike Rome: No problem.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Safe.
Dave Scott: Yeah, I just wanted to piggyback actually on Monica's question. So you talked a little bit about quick ratio.
Dave Scott: Your presentation. I I think people would really benefit. If you talk a little more about quick ratio, and why it matters. And then do you ever use K. Factor as a measurement strategy?
Mike Rome: K factors, like the virality.
Dave Scott: Yeah.
Mike Rome: Right? Yeah, like, I said, I just haven't had the luxury of, I mean, if you guys
Mike Rome: so here's how I feel about virality. If if you're in a business where there's like a clear line of sight to it, or there's leading indicators where this this could work.
Mike Rome: it's the best type of growth hands down. I mean, you could build a massive business
Mike Rome: on the flip side of that is, I think, you know, it's also it's the coolest type of growth. And I think there's a lot of companies that spend too much time trying to engineer virality when it's just like, not in the cards. And so you kind of got to balance both sides of that equation. I feel like Dave for you again. I keep going. I'm not like a a boards game aficionado. I keep going back to the cards against humanity guys.
Mike Rome: That was a super viral product, right? And I feel like in your space. I mean, I know there's other games like I'm thinking of. Have you guys seen like spike ball like the physical game where you bounce the ball up the net. Everyone's in a circle like that game had insane virality. Right? I I know the founder over there, and, like, you know, people would just see this thing and be like Whoa! What is that? It looks so different? And
Mike Rome: you know ultimately they figured out, how do you? How how do they engineer virality, like the best thing they could do is like, give these things away like they would go to like lacrosse tournaments because there was a lot of parallels between, like a lot of people playing spike ball in the early days played lacrosse
Mike Rome: might have been another sport, I think, was lacrosse, but there was some insight like that. And they were like measuring, trying to measure. K. Factor gets it gets hard when you're trying to do it offline. But they were trying to like measure a version of this, and they realized, like the the thing they could do to improve the K factor. The most was like, just go to lacrosse like events at like high schools and universities.
Mike Rome: and like give, give them, you know, give away the product, show them how to play it, and then, like, just like kind of you know.
Mike Rome: get away and and let them do their thing. And all of a sudden people are posting videos of like the craziest spike ball rallies you've ever seen. And so yeah, I think for your business.
Mike Rome: There's probably something there. And I would study other companies that you admire in the game space and try to validate it, and if there is, I think you could like spend proper time there. Just for some of your other businesses. You guys are talking about some of these b 2 b businesses. It's like longer cell cycles. Yeah, you know, your Icp is like, you know, pretty high up decision makers like don't kid yourself into thinking like that. Business can be viral. So
Mike Rome: yeah, if it's there, you should lean into trying to figure out if you can tap it if it's not there. I think going back to this slide I had on, you know, growth models. There's all sorts of ways to grow, and virality is amazing. It's organic. It's amazing for unit economics. But there's all sorts of other big businesses that have been built that are viral. So that's kind of a message in terms of the quick ratio, Dave.
Mike Rome: the quick ratio calculation. It's this goes back to the the the new reactivated and retained and so the quick ratio calculation is just
Mike Rome: It's just
Mike Rome: your let's find it in here.
Mike Rome: so I'll make sure I get the calc right. I think it's
Mike Rome: cool. Yeah. So it's new plus resurrected, divided by churned, which is the opposite of retained. So again, this is gonna allow you to basically come up with this calculation. Kind of hard to see here. It's like the subheading on this graph for every 1.1 2 customers that you gained. How many are you losing?
Mike Rome: Again, the difference between gaining 1.1 2 to 1.1 7. Compared to losing, one might not seem like a big deal. It's actually a massive deal for a consumer business for B, 2 B companies like, you probably want this to be more like 3, 4, 5.
Mike Rome: The second post gets more into it. But it's just the quick ratio, is. It's it's a measure of those positive and contribute positive and negative contributions to growth. It's the sub measure that shows you how healthy the top line growth is, that's all. The quick ratio does. So it's meant to keep you honest again. These are 2 businesses that are both growing at the same top line growth rate.
Mike Rome: But they have a very different quick ratio. And so if you think about compound monthly growth rate or weekly growth rate or annual growth rate, that's a way to measure like the growth overall. And how big it is. The quick ratio is a measure to figure out how healthy that growth is, does that make sense?
Mike Rome: You can be ripping at top line growth. I'm sorry I sound like a broken record. You can be absolutely ripping, and the business can still be in a lot of trouble, and
Mike Rome: the way that you would see that as a business that has really great top line growth but their quick ratio is really brutal relative to industry. Benchmarks.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Great Annie, do you want to ask your question from the chat.
Annie Brown: Oh, yeah, I guess. What's the best way to communicate growth strategy to investors? And do you have examples of of startups that have done that. Well.
Mike Rome: I think.
Mike Rome: I mean, I think the best way to communicate it is like, like the the more you can mitigate risk the better. You know, I see a lot of people that are doing investor pitches, and there's just so many assumptions like, I think good invest like good investors like at your stage.
Mike Rome: They're okay with uncertainty, like they're fine with uncertainty, like they're in the business of uncertainty. Right? Like venture is a crazy
Mike Rome: crazy way to make a living. I think what they're not okay with is like a bunch of assumptions that, like the team isn't actively working to validate. So you know, for me. And like the thought leadership stuff any. There's a difference between saying like, we're gonna scale via thought leadership and saying.
Mike Rome: Here's our thought leadership roadmap. Right we had this in. We went to X events, and these were the insights we derived there. So we know thought leadership matters. And it's an avenue for growth for us. So the next thing we did is that unbridled ideation we talked about, and we came up with 20 ways to do thought leadership. And since then we've run 10 tests. And of those 10 different ways of doing thought leadership. What we found is these 5 are working better than these 5.
Mike Rome: And because of that, here's what we're gonna do next. And so to me, it's more so. I don't think it's like.
Mike Rome: I don't think there's like a perfect way to kind of communicate growth plans. I think it's more so like, have you put in the work, or are you just like making a bunch of assumptions, because, like a really good investor.
Mike Rome: they know that like, you might very much be wrong in in terms of how you're thinking about thought leadership because it's early. But they want to see that like you've put in the work. And the work that you continue to do is based on real learnings. It's based on real data like you're letting that inform what you do next. Because ultimately, that's what they want. In the early days like they want someone who's going to be really thoughtful around like prioritizing what they do next. And
Mike Rome: they're not just doing things because it's their opinion. Sometimes I mean, you guys are early. You guys are all founders for a reason. You have really good instincts. Sometimes you have to lean on gut.
Mike Rome: But on average I I think that people use the early days and sort of this idea of gut as a little bit of a crutch and too much of an excuse to like. Just go out there. Start executing start, you know, gathering whatever data points you can, regardless of how flawed it is, and just build this motion of like doing things based on learnings. So
Mike Rome: you know, it's not like a perfect answer. But I think if there's an investor out there who, like
Mike Rome: those are the investors you want right? And and let's be real. There's really good investors out there. And there's also like some people who just have a lot of money, who kind of want to get in the game, and I happen to find that the really good investors they appreciate like the work ethic and the methodical approach to growth more so than like this is how we're gonna deliver it in a deck. I wouldn't worry as much about that. If that makes sense.
Annie Brown: Yeah, no, that makes a lot of sense. Thank you.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Awesome anyone else.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Right?
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Thank you so much. Mike, I'll get the updated deck off of you. And are you comfortable with us, sharing your contact info for any follow ups.
Mike Rome: Yeah, let me just
Mike Rome: Let me just send it to you now.
Mike Rome: Deck. So don't forget. And then, yeah, you guys can hit me up at mike@moonwater.studio, or mike@lightbulb.run
Mike Rome: but yeah, I'm really excited for you guys. It's it's always fun to to hang here. Hopefully, I didn't sound like too much of a downer. I just think, you know, startups are hard. You guys should expect that everyone here is tough like you wouldn't. You wouldn't have come this far if you weren't. I think it's really important just to set that expectation with the team and it's okay, right? Like, you're gonna get punched in the face a lot. And I think that you know, I think about the best companies that I've been part of, who've grown.
Mike Rome: Everyone's always looking for like what's like the sexy growth story. And I just think the reality is is like, you know, team had a lot of really talented people, and collectively, they got really good at finding ways not to die.
Mike Rome: And that doesn't sound very awesome.
Mike Rome: but it's usually how it goes like like there, there's no silver silver bullet even like the growth hacker term. No, no disrespect, like I. People know what it means. And it it's useful. But I think that term is like kind of done a disservice, because it implies that like, there's like an easy way to do things. And I think you can definitely work smarter instead of harder. And hopefully, I've communicated some of that stuff. But
Mike Rome: yeah, this stuff's really hard. And I think you guys should be like, really proud of how far you've come and try to surround yourself with the team. And even in the early days when you can't like, afford a huge team, a community like techstars that you can like lean on because that's the type of stuff like I I really do believe it's like, Can you survive long enough to win and there's all sorts of things you can do in terms of your culture. And then also some of like the hard skills around growth that we talked about to get there. So
Mike Rome: Yeah. So I'm I'm I'm rambling a bit now. But, you guys, you guys get my gist and.
Lilliana Robinson: This is awesome. You're not rippling at all, and don't worry about being too harsh. This group loves the hard truth like honestly, they like when people don't sugarcoat it. So this was super helpful.
Mike Rome: Yeah, you gotta get good with that, like I has Troy. Do you guys know? Like Troy Hennikoff, he was like a Chicago tech stars guy.
Mike Rome: That's right.
Mike Rome: Yeah. So he's someone. I think. I there's a few people in Chicago here who were pretty brutally honest with me in the early days, and
Mike Rome: at 1st you kind of are like, Oh, God!
Mike Rome: God was kind of an asshole. And then now I look back, and I'm like, Wow! Those are the most helpful people in my career. The people who like they wanted to help so badly that they told me the truth. You know there's a Nick Saban. He's a football coach. There's a quote that's like,
Mike Rome: average players like
Mike Rome: I forget what it is. It's like,
Mike Rome: Average players want to be like left alone. Good players want to be coached, and great players want to be told the truth, and I think the more you can get like comfortable with just like you guys are true seekers. You're on this quest, you know. Like, it's scary to look at what your quick ratio might be assuming you have enough data to take a shot at it. It's scary to be like, Hey, we're not retaining at a rate to like, actually justify going to scale. But it's the best possible thing. And again, if you just kind of come back to
Mike Rome: that graph I showed at the beginning, where, like even the best startups are
Mike Rome: little bit of a dumpster fire throughout, and it's going to be volatile the best thing you can learn is the truth. And hopefully, it's a win in addition to the truth. But if it's something that's pretty bad, as long as it's the truth, it's good because you're you're progressing right? You're on this path of like we know what we need to do next to keep surviving long enough to win
Mike Rome: So anyway. Yeah, I'll I'll shoot the deck over now. But yeah, nice hanging with the group.
Lilliana Robinson: Thanks so much, Mike. This was great.
Mike Rome: Alright! Alright! Good luck! Everyone!
George Reed - Noetic: Thanks. Mark, that's amazing.
Lilliana Robinson: I'll talk to you soon. Thanks again.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Thank you.
Inessa: Thank you.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Solid.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Liliana, anything you need from me at the moment.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Okay. Looks like an old device should do devices on
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Akadina. I'll talk to you after my next call.
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Oh, that's on the recording awesome!
Chloe Lannert | Techstars: Let me.